So let's talk about what differentiates a DOM API from
the binding and SAX APIs that you'll encounter in the
next two modules of this course, and why you want to use one in the first place.
So first thing to say, and I cannot emphasis this enough,
is that you don't want to write your own JSON parser.
It seems so simple when you look at JSON.
It's really pretty simple syntax and it shouldn't
take too long to write a parser,
but there are three good reasons why you don't want to do this.
Firstly,
you'll hit weird bugs in your JSON parser for some
input that you haven't tested against, but crops in production.
Errors, they'll be fixed in standard JSON parser.
Now I'm not saying that libraries Jackson don't have bugs in,
but they're less likely to have them in than a custom library.
Secondly, performance.
Existing parsers will have been tuned and optimized over time and work
will have gone into them that you don't have to do.
You may not need to be the fastest web app in the West,
but it's always good to know that you aren't burning extra
CPU cycles that aren't needed when it didn't take any of your
own time to do the optimization.
Finally,
most Java developers have plenty of work to do
without adding anything else to it.
Productivity is key to achieving business goals and the more time
you get to spend solving relevant problems,
the better.
Now DOM stands for document object model,
which is the style of JSON API we're using.
It's sometimes called a tree-style API.
The idea with a DOM API is that it uses an object graph to
represent the JSON document that's being parsed.
So you parse a JSON document, invert it into an in-memory series of objects,
you can then operate on them, and then pretty print them back out as JSON.
Alternatively, you can just parse the document and operate on it directly.
DOM-style APIs are sometimes referred to as document trees, or just tree-style APIs for short.